---
order: 1
title: Upgrading from v7 to v8
description: v8.0.0 contains a number of breaking changes.
eleventyNavigation:
  parent: Upgrading
---

## Feature templates

The plugin now uses [virtual templates](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/virtual-templates/) to enable common website features without the needing to create extra pages in your content folder.

### 404 error page

A 404 error page is now generated by default. If you have already created a 404 page, you can now delete this file. You can configure the 404 page (or disable it) using the `templates.error404` option.

### RSS feed

It’s now easier to add and configure an RSS feed. If you have already created a page that uses the `feed` layout, you should delete this file and configure your feed using the `templates.feed` option instead.

### Search index

It’s now easier to create a search index. If you have already created a page that uses the `search-index` layout, you should delete this file and configure your search index using the `templates.search` option instead.

### Sitemap

A sitemap is now generated by default. If you have already created a page that used the `sitemap` layout, you can now delete this file. You can configure the sitemap (or disable it) using the `templates.sitemap` option.

### Tags

It’s now easier to add tag pages. If you have already created pages that use the `tag` and `tags` layouts, you should delete these file and configure tags using the `templates.tags` option instead.

## Showing multiple authors for a post

The `authors` option for the post layout has been removed. You can instead use an array of authors under the `author` option:

```diff
  ---
  layout: post
  title: How we designed a service to manage juggling licence applications
- authors:
+ author:
    - name: Rod Gandini
      url: '#'
    - name: Sean Laver
      url: '#'
```

## New Markdown features

- Blockquotes are no longer styled using inset text, but instead use the design used for quotations on GOV.UK.

  This design adds opening quotation marks to the start of each paragraph, and a closing quotation mark after the last paragraph. If you previously included these as part of a quote, you should remove these characters:

  ```diff
  - > "No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise."
  + > No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise.
  ```

- You can now use GitHub-style alerts to emphasise critical information. If you were previously using the blockquote syntax to display content as inset text, you can now use the note alert type instead:

  ```diff
  + > [!NOTE]
    > No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise.
  ```

- Quotations can now include an attribution. If you were previously citing an author as part of a quotation, you can now explicitly mark this as such by prefixing it with 2 hyphens (`--`):

  ```diff
  - > No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise - Winston Churchill
  + > No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise
  + > -- Winston Churchill
  ```

See [examples in the Markdown guide](/example/markdown).

## Configuration options removed

- The `feedUrl` option had been removed. Use the RSS Feed feature to configure your feed’s URL instead.
- The `parentSite` option has been removed. You can configure the header or service navigation components to provide links to a parent site.
- The `rebrand` option has been removed.
